Whenever you're creating and designing something reference is key reference is what's going to make
your work look professional as opposed to amateur work.
So what do I mean by reference.
Well I mean let's say for example that on my character he's going to have feathers now rather than just
a drawing.
I think a feather looks like I'm going to actually look up images of feathers and use those as references
when I'm drawing my character.
I'll also like I said usually do a bunch of drawings of the types of things that will be used in my
design so that I can get use to drawing those types of objects.
So I'll usually do is I'll get some images off line and I'll bring them into Photoshop and then right
next to them.
I'm just going to copy them by drawing them this way I can have really good understanding of what a
feather looks like and how it works.
The way I get an image into Photoshop is by right clicking on the image.
I copy the image.
Then I come back into Photoshop and then go and control V which is paste and on a Mac it's going to
be command the.
Then I'm going to shrink down my image by going control T or command t on a Mac.
And then you're going to grab the corner and shrink him down.
Whoops hold down Shift while you do this.
That way it keeps the image in proportion.
That's good.
Now the reason why I have a raccoon here is because I think I'm going to have some fur on my character
also.
And so I want to study what fur looks like and try drawing it.
So let's start with a feather.
So I'm going to go ahead and zoom in here.
And what I want to do is I just want to copy this feather right here and try to recreate it and maybe
make it look a little bit better.
But I want to recreate that feather so that way when I'm drawing my feathers I know that this is actually
what a feather looks like.
So that way I can distort it or change it and make it look more to my style but it'll still look like
a feather because I know the components that make up a feather.
So I'm just going to grab a brush shrink my brush size down.
Now this doesn't really matter what kind of brush you use.
Also if you don't have a drawing tablet you can definitely do this on with paper and pencil.
So I'm just going to select this little brush right here and I'm just going to go ahead and start drawing
the feather.
So we kind of have to get doesn't have to be perfect.
We're just trying to get those shapes down.
So we have the center piece.
It's kind of like a stick.
Then I might just kind of block it out.
The basic shape of the feather
but you'll notice that there are little pieces that kind of give in.
So I'm going to add those in
sometimes we get these little curly things that come out and then sometimes we get ones that go in like
so
you know notices if we get to the end it gets a little fluffy.
And you'll also notice on other feathers it gets pretty fluffy so I'm going to kind of almost make it
look like further down towards the bottom.
I like that.
All right then I'll finish up this side.
I'm going to bring this piece out a little bit more like so and I don't really like the size of the
fuzziness on the sides.
I'm going to go ahead and erase it
bring that out a little bit more.
OK.
So now if we have a look at the feather you'll also see there's kind of lines going like this because
with a feather each piece of the feather is an individual little strand with other little pieces sticking
off of it.
Make it stick together kind of like Velcro.
And so we want to add that in there.
Now with this I'm just kind of suggesting the lines and where they're going.
Again remember the season have to be perfect this isn't a final piece of artwork.
This is just for you and your knowledge.
All right let's move on to the fur.
So look at the fur.
It's it's pretty simple.
Now it's obviously not just like spiky but it's just kind of a series of lines going off into somewhat
of the same direction.
There's a bit of variation.
So we want to make sure that it's not just a bunch of lines going like that just straight
but from what I can see this is basically what the fur looks like.
And then there might be another level for
now drawing fur isn't like painting fur.
They're kind of two different processes.
But what we're doing here is we're just drawing it because by drawing it we really have to look at it
and study it and understand what it is and how it works.
And that's the importance of using reference is you really need to gain an understanding of what it
is that you're designing and creating this will make your work immensely better.
Thank you for watching this lecture and I really hope it was helpful for you.
Can't wait to see you in the next one.